---
title: Attention Is All You Need
authors:
- "\\AND\n  Ashish Vaswani\\thanks{Equal contribution. Listing order is random. Jakob\
  \ proposed replacing RNNs with self-attention and started the effort to evaluate\
  \ this idea.\nAshish"
- with Illia
- designed and implemented the first Transformer models and has been crucially involved
  in every aspect of this work. Noam proposed scaled dot-product attention
- multi-head attention and the parameter-free position representation and became the
  other person involved in nearly every detail. Niki designed
- implemented
- tuned and evaluated countless model variants in our original codebase and tensor2tensor.
  Llion also experimented with novel model variants
- was responsible for our initial codebase
- and efficient inference and visualizations. Lukasz and Aidan spent countless long
  days designing various parts of and implementing tensor2tensor
- replacing our earlier codebase
- greatly improving results and massively accelerating our research.
arxiv_id: '1706.03762'
abstract: 'The dominant sequence transduction models are based on complex recurrent
  or convolutional neural networks that include an encoder and a decoder. The best
  performing models also connect the encoder and decoder through an attention mechanism.
  We propose a new simple network architecture, the Transformer, based solely on attention
  mechanisms, dispensing with recurrence and convolutions entirely. Experiments on
  two machine translation tasks show these models to be superior in quality while
  being  more parallelizable and requiring significantly less time to train. Our model
  achieves 28.4 BLEU on the WMT 2014 English-to-German translation task, improving
  over the existing best results, including ensembles, by over 2 BLEU.  On the WMT
  2014 English-to-French translation task, our model establishes a new single-model
  state-of-the-art BLEU score of 41.8 after training for 3.5 days on eight GPUs, a
  small fraction of the training costs of the best models from the literature. We
  show that the Transformer generalizes well to other tasks by applying it successfully
  to English constituency parsing  both with large and limited training data.

  % \1}


  %TODO(noam): update results for new models.


  %llion@: FAIR''s paper seems to concentrate solely on the convolutional aspect of
  their model and have the attention as an after thought almost, this gives us a good
  opportunity to differentiate ourselves from their paper.


  %We are simpler in a number of ways and should have the simplicity as a big selling
  point:

  %\1

  % No convolutions

  % No need for such careful initializations and %normalization.

  % Simpler non-lineararities, they use the gated linear %units.

  % Less layers?

  %\1

  %One thing we do more is that we have self attention.

  %Another selling point is the increased interpretability as %shown with the visualizations.
  Which comes from the %simplicity and use of only attentions.'
processed_at: '2025-09-10T18:22:28.172130'
source: arxiv-mcp-improved
---

---
abstract: |
  The dominant sequence transduction models are based on complex recurrent or convolutional neural networks that include an encoder and a decoder. The best performing models also connect the encoder and decoder through an attention mechanism. We propose a new simple network architecture, the Transformer, based solely on attention mechanisms, dispensing with recurrence and convolutions entirely. Experiments on two machine translation tasks show these models to be superior in quality while being more parallelizable and requiring significantly less time to train. Our model achieves 28.4 BLEU on the WMT 2014 English-to-German translation task, improving over the existing best results, including ensembles, by over 2 BLEU. On the WMT 2014 English-to-French translation task, our model establishes a new single-model state-of-the-art BLEU score of 41.8 after training for 3.5 days on eight GPUs, a small fraction of the training costs of the best models from the literature. We show that the Transformer generalizes well to other tasks by applying it successfully to English constituency parsing both with large and limited training data.
author:
- |
  Ashish Vaswani[^1]\
  Google Brain\
  `avaswani@google.com`\
  Noam Shazeer\
  Google Brain\
  `noam@google.com`\
  Niki Parmar\
  Google Research\
  `nikip@google.com`\
  Jakob Uszkoreit\
  Google Research\
  `usz@google.com`\
  Llion Jones\
  Google Research\
  `llion@google.com`\
  Aidan N. Gomez[^2]\
  University of Toronto\
  `aidan@cs.toronto.edu` Łukasz Kaiser\
  Google Brain\
  `lukaszkaiser@google.com`\
  Illia Polosukhin [^3]\
  `illia.polosukhin@gmail.com`\
title: Attention Is All You Need
---

::: center
Provided proper attribution is provided, Google hereby grants permission to reproduce the tables and figures in this paper solely for use in journalistic or scholarly works.
:::

# Introduction

# Background

# Model Architecture

# Why Self-Attention

# Training

# Results {#sec:results}

# Conclusion

In this work, we presented the Transformer, the first sequence transduction model based entirely on attention, replacing the recurrent layers most commonly used in encoder-decoder architectures with multi-headed self-attention.

For translation tasks, the Transformer can be trained significantly faster than architectures based on recurrent or convolutional layers. On both WMT 2014 English-to-German and WMT 2014 English-to-French translation tasks, we achieve a new state of the art. In the former task our best model outperforms even all previously reported ensembles.

We are excited about the future of attention-based models and plan to apply them to other tasks. We plan to extend the Transformer to problems involving input and output modalities other than text and to investigate local, restricted attention mechanisms to efficiently handle large inputs and outputs such as images, audio and video. Making generation less sequential is another research goals of ours.

The code we used to train and evaluate our models is available at <https://github.com/tensorflow/tensor2tensor>.

#### Acknowledgements

We are grateful to Nal Kalchbrenner and Stephan Gouws for their fruitful comments, corrections and inspiration.

::: thebibliography
10

Jimmy Lei Ba, Jamie Ryan Kiros, and Geoffrey E Hinton. Layer normalization. , 2016.

Dzmitry Bahdanau, Kyunghyun Cho, and Yoshua Bengio. Neural machine translation by jointly learning to align and translate. , abs/1409.0473, 2014.

Denny Britz, Anna Goldie, Minh-Thang Luong, and Quoc V. Le. Massive exploration of neural machine translation architectures. , abs/1703.03906, 2017.

Jianpeng Cheng, Li Dong, and Mirella Lapata. Long short-term memory-networks for machine reading. , 2016.

Kyunghyun Cho, Bart van Merrienboer, Caglar Gulcehre, Fethi Bougares, Holger Schwenk, and Yoshua Bengio. Learning phrase representations using rnn encoder-decoder for statistical machine translation. , abs/1406.1078, 2014.

Francois Chollet. Xception: Deep learning with depthwise separable convolutions. , 2016.

Junyoung Chung, Çaglar Gülçehre, Kyunghyun Cho, and Yoshua Bengio. Empirical evaluation of gated recurrent neural networks on sequence modeling. , abs/1412.3555, 2014.

Chris Dyer, Adhiguna Kuncoro, Miguel Ballesteros, and Noah A. Smith. Recurrent neural network grammars. In *Proc. of NAACL*, 2016.

Jonas Gehring, Michael Auli, David Grangier, Denis Yarats, and Yann N. Dauphin. Convolutional sequence to sequence learning. , 2017.

Alex Graves. Generating sequences with recurrent neural networks. , 2013.

Kaiming He, Xiangyu Zhang, Shaoqing Ren, and Jian Sun. Deep residual learning for image recognition. In *Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition*, pages 770--778, 2016.

Sepp Hochreiter, Yoshua Bengio, Paolo Frasconi, and Jürgen Schmidhuber. Gradient flow in recurrent nets: the difficulty of learning long-term dependencies, 2001.

Sepp Hochreiter and Jürgen Schmidhuber. Long short-term memory. , 9(8):1735--1780, 1997.

Zhongqiang Huang and Mary Harper. Self-training PCFG grammars with latent annotations across languages. In *Proceedings of the 2009 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, pages 832--841. ACL, August 2009.

Rafal Jozefowicz, Oriol Vinyals, Mike Schuster, Noam Shazeer, and Yonghui Wu. Exploring the limits of language modeling. , 2016.

Łukasz Kaiser and Samy Bengio. Can active memory replace attention? In *Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, (NIPS)*, 2016.

Łukasz Kaiser and Ilya Sutskever. Neural GPUs learn algorithms. In *International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR)*, 2016.

Nal Kalchbrenner, Lasse Espeholt, Karen Simonyan, Aaron van den Oord, Alex Graves, and Koray Kavukcuoglu. Neural machine translation in linear time. , 2017.

Yoon Kim, Carl Denton, Luong Hoang, and Alexander M. Rush. Structured attention networks. In *International Conference on Learning Representations*, 2017.

Diederik Kingma and Jimmy Ba. Adam: A method for stochastic optimization. In *ICLR*, 2015.

Oleksii Kuchaiev and Boris Ginsburg. Factorization tricks for LSTM networks. , 2017.

Zhouhan Lin, Minwei Feng, Cicero Nogueira dos Santos, Mo Yu, Bing Xiang, Bowen Zhou, and Yoshua Bengio. A structured self-attentive sentence embedding. , 2017.

Minh-Thang Luong, Quoc V. Le, Ilya Sutskever, Oriol Vinyals, and Lukasz Kaiser. Multi-task sequence to sequence learning. , 2015.

Minh-Thang Luong, Hieu Pham, and Christopher D Manning. Effective approaches to attention-based neural machine translation. , 2015.

Mitchell P Marcus, Mary Ann Marcinkiewicz, and Beatrice Santorini. Building a large annotated corpus of english: The penn treebank. , 19(2):313--330, 1993.

David McClosky, Eugene Charniak, and Mark Johnson. Effective self-training for parsing. In *Proceedings of the Human Language Technology Conference of the NAACL, Main Conference*, pages 152--159. ACL, June 2006.

Ankur Parikh, Oscar Täckström, Dipanjan Das, and Jakob Uszkoreit. A decomposable attention model. In *Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing*, 2016.

Romain Paulus, Caiming Xiong, and Richard Socher. A deep reinforced model for abstractive summarization. , 2017.

Slav Petrov, Leon Barrett, Romain Thibaux, and Dan Klein. Learning accurate, compact, and interpretable tree annotation. In *Proceedings of the 21st International Conference on Computational Linguistics and 44th Annual Meeting of the ACL*, pages 433--440. ACL, July 2006.

Ofir Press and Lior Wolf. Using the output embedding to improve language models. , 2016.

Rico Sennrich, Barry Haddow, and Alexandra Birch. Neural machine translation of rare words with subword units. , 2015.

Noam Shazeer, Azalia Mirhoseini, Krzysztof Maziarz, Andy Davis, Quoc Le, Geoffrey Hinton, and Jeff Dean. Outrageously large neural networks: The sparsely-gated mixture-of-experts layer. , 2017.

Nitish Srivastava, Geoffrey E Hinton, Alex Krizhevsky, Ilya Sutskever, and Ruslan Salakhutdinov. Dropout: a simple way to prevent neural networks from overfitting. , 15(1):1929--1958, 2014.

Sainbayar Sukhbaatar, Arthur Szlam, Jason Weston, and Rob Fergus. End-to-end memory networks. In C. Cortes, N. D. Lawrence, D. D. Lee, M. Sugiyama, and R. Garnett, editors, *Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 28*, pages 2440--2448. Curran Associates, Inc., 2015.

Ilya Sutskever, Oriol Vinyals, and Quoc VV Le. Sequence to sequence learning with neural networks. In *Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems*, pages 3104--3112, 2014.

Christian Szegedy, Vincent Vanhoucke, Sergey Ioffe, Jonathon Shlens, and Zbigniew Wojna. Rethinking the inception architecture for computer vision. , abs/1512.00567, 2015.

Vinyals & Kaiser, Koo, Petrov, Sutskever, and Hinton. Grammar as a foreign language. In *Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems*, 2015.

Yonghui Wu, Mike Schuster, Zhifeng Chen, Quoc V Le, Mohammad Norouzi, Wolfgang Macherey, Maxim Krikun, Yuan Cao, Qin Gao, Klaus Macherey, et al. Google's neural machine translation system: Bridging the gap between human and machine translation. , 2016.

Jie Zhou, Ying Cao, Xuguang Wang, Peng Li, and Wei Xu. Deep recurrent models with fast-forward connections for neural machine translation. , abs/1606.04199, 2016.

Muhua Zhu, Yue Zhang, Wenliang Chen, Min Zhang, and Jingbo Zhu. Fast and accurate shift-reduce constituent parsing. In *Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the ACL (Volume 1: Long Papers)*, pages 434--443. ACL, August 2013.
:::

[^1]: Equal contribution. Listing order is random. Jakob proposed replacing RNNs with self-attention and started the effort to evaluate this idea. Ashish, with Illia, designed and implemented the first Transformer models and has been crucially involved in every aspect of this work. Noam proposed scaled dot-product attention, multi-head attention and the parameter-free position representation and became the other person involved in nearly every detail. Niki designed, implemented, tuned and evaluated countless model variants in our original codebase and tensor2tensor. Llion also experimented with novel model variants, was responsible for our initial codebase, and efficient inference and visualizations. Lukasz and Aidan spent countless long days designing various parts of and implementing tensor2tensor, replacing our earlier codebase, greatly improving results and massively accelerating our research.

[^2]: Work performed while at Google Brain.

[^3]: Work performed while at Google Research.